# ArcGIS Pro Content - Page 3

**Source URL:** https://community.esri.com/t5/arcgis-pro-documents/arcgis-pro-roadmap-november-2024/ta-p/1558302

**Page Type:** linked_page

---

ArcGIS Pro Roadmap - May 2025

ArcGIS Pro 3.5 was released on May 13, 2025. For information on the latest updates, please see the ArcGIS Pro 3.5 Release Notes.

Our goal is to build the best GIS software available. This ArcGIS Pro Roadmap gives you a sneak peek of what we're focusing on for the near-, mid- and long-term of ArcGIS Pro development. It gives our current estimate of when each capability will be released.

New capabilities will be made available for beta testing through the Early Adopter Community prior to a release and we'll revise the roadmap throughout the year to ensure it reflects the latest information.

What would you like to see next in ArcGIS Pro? Share your ideas in the ArcGIS Pro Idea Exchange.

If you're interested in contributing to the development of ArcGIS Pro, gaining early access to beta versions, and engaging with the team to provide meaningful insights for improvement, sign up to participate in the ArcGIS Pro Early Adopter Community.

Additionally, we have an exclusive opportunity to participate in the development of ArcGIS Pro's AI-powered assistants. We are currently accepting applications for up to 500 users to join the ArcGIS Pro assistant (beta) Early Adopter Community. Apply here to participate.

* Capabilities on this roadmap are tentative and subject to change, delay, or cancellation. The continued development or release of a capability is at the sole discretion of Esri.

Near-Term (next release or two)

Customize Layer Visibility per Map Frame - Support overriding the map's visible layers in a layout map frame. This allows multiple layouts to show different data layers while pointing to a single map.

Display Using Map Time Zone - Display all date-time values in the time zone of the map, even when the data is stored in different time zones.

Convert KML with attributes - New tool for converting KML format to a geodatabase, which supports reading input KML that has extended data attributes and creates output features with corresponding attribute fields.

OneDrive Support - Support storage of ArcGIS Pro files and data in OneDrive.

Timeline View - Visualize your data along a temporal axis. Timelines complement the spatial view of your data on the map by showing where in time your data falls. By plotting your data along a timeline, you can understand the temporal order of your data and discern temporal trends that emerge.

ArcGIS Pro Assistant (beta) - ArcGIS Pro users get support from AI assistants to increase productivity in several areas. The help assistant answers questions in natural language referencing documentation while other focused assistants will aid in writing queries, expressions, scripts and planning GIS workflows.

Reading Alignments from IFC - Building Smart International is actively working on expanding the IFC standard to include more infrastructure support, including things like rail, tunnels, and roadways. To address the anticipated needs, this project builds on our current capabilities to read 3D elements from IFC to include alignments and other linear elements as part of our BIM model support.

Suitability Modeler: Comparison - The Suitability Modeler Compare functionality and user experience allows the user to compare a set of similar models. The user can compare two models or analyze a series of models relative to each other to explore where they are similar and where they differ to determine the best model.

Roof Editing in Stereo - Tools specifically designed to create and edit pitches, ridge lines, gables and other roof specific features.

Edit Templates in the Database - Ability to store edit templates authored in ArcGIS Pro in a database and use within ArcGIS Pro, or outside of ArcGIS Pro through a feature service.

Point Cloud Scene Layer Data Management - Add, Delete, Change very large point cloud services based on reference data sources.

Telecom Domain for Circuit Management - The Telecom domain is designed to provide grouping for fiber/ports, tracing specific to communication networks and telecom-based circuit management (as opposed to electric circuit configurations).

Gaussian Splat Layer - New gaussian splat scene layer for incredibly high-fidelity visualization in ArcGIS Pro. ArcGIS Pro offers an end-to-end solution, starting from processing the captured data in ArcGIS Reality, visualizing it in 3D, and sharing the gaussian splat layer to ArcGIS Online. Users can build digital twins by incorporating the gaussian splat layer with other content in a scene.

Assess Sensitivity to Aggregation Scale - This tool helps you evaluate different aggregation scales, suggests one or more recommended scales, and provides metrics that measure how uniformly points are distributed within bins and robustness to errors. By exploring these options, you can better understand the impact of the Modifiable Areal Unit Problem (MAUP) and make more informed decisions when selecting an aggregation scheme. Choosing an appropriate scale can reveal meaningful spatial patterns and lead to more valid, reliable interpretations and decisions.

Prepare Data for Predictions - The quality of your predictions depends on the quality of your input data. This new tool provides essential support for preparing your data for predictive analysis. It helps you add spatial variables, split your data into training and test sets meaningfully, and account for imbalanced categorical variables. With better prepared data, you can build more accurate, reliable models and generate stronger insights.

Oriented Imagery: Inspection Workflow - Collect features in image space as part of inspection workflows.

Mid-term (next two or three releases)

Layer & Feature Effects - Apply visual effects such as blur and drop shadow to layers or a subset of features for emphasis.

Dispersed Points Visualization - Dynamically disperse overlapping point features when drawing feature layers.

Support for Attribute Editing Forms - The first phase of this project will provide support in ArcGIS Pro to use attribute editing forms created in other ArcGIS applications (Map Viewer and Field Maps Designer). The second phase will provide support for building and configuring forms from ArcGIS Pro.

Plume Simulation - Use air-quality dispersion simulation to predict pollutant concentrations for current or future scenarios in varying weather conditions, and use the results for health analytics and comparison to air quality standards.

Materials Authoring - Author properties to support reflectivity, roughness and other properties for more photo-realistic visualizations in 3D scenes.

Mesh Segmentation Models - Mesh Segmentation will provide the ability to train and use deep learning models for identifying parts of a 3D mesh as objects such as trees, buildings or roofs.

Oriented Imagery: Live Video Superposition and AI Integration - Superposition of live video streams onto surfaces of objects (flashlight mode) enabling live representation of scenes from multiple image sources. Tight integration with ArcGIS Image Analyst Extension based AI workflows for creating training data, training models and inferencing. Integration with pre-trained models such as face blurring, car number plate blurring as well as a range of feature extraction such as road signs. Users will be able to drive to a collection of images, features or labels to collect or review attributes.

Long-term (in the plan but not assigned to a release at this point)

Share ArcGIS Pro Model - Author a ModelBuilder model in ArcGIS Pro and share it as an item to ArcGIS Online or ArcGIS Enterprise. You will be able to view and run the model from a browser. You will also be able to download, view and run the model in ArcGIS Pro projects.

Street Name Index for Layouts - A new layout element to show where street names, or other features are located within a map grid or across map series pages. Various options for formatting the text will be available.

Terrain Editing - Ability to interactively edit the ground or other surfaces. Add, remove and replace data referenced by the surface.

High Fidelity Rendering - A series of display improvements to support more photo-realistic 3D scene visualizations.

3D Mesh as Ground - The ability to use integrated mesh or TIN information as a true triangulated ground surface that would be more precise than raster surfaces and allow structures such as tunnels and mines.

Integrated Mesh Scene Layer Data Management - Add, Delete, Change very large integrated mesh services based on SLPK.

Cloud Drive Support - Support storage of ArcGIS Pro files and data in common cloud drives in addition to OneDrive.

Infrastructure-less IPS - ArcGIS IPS will not rely on the installation of dedicated hardware.